# Using mpbintools
The files in this repository are the EXEs as windows binaries. ``zlib1.dll`` as the zlib DLL required for using the binaries. The C files are the source code to the programs and require zlib linked to use. Clicking on both programs without parameters explains the usage. Both programs should be launched from the command line.

# bindump
bindump is used as ``bindump in.bin`` with ``in.bin`` being the input Mario Party BIN file. The text file output will be the same name as the BIN file but the file extension is changed to txt. The files are also extracted onto the disk with the same name as the bin but with ``_file%d.%s`` being added after the extension is tripped with ``%d`` being the file index and ``%s`` being the file extension. Possible values for the file extension are ``atb`` for 2D images, ``hsf`` for 3D models, and ``dat`` for an unknown format. The format of each line of the text file is ``compression_type=%d: %s`` with ``%d`` being the compression type and ``%s`` being the filename relative to the directory of the dumped text file. Possible values for the compression type are 0 for no compression, 1 for a LZSS compression, 2, 3, or 4 for a sliding window compression similar to YAZ0, 5 for a RLE compression, or 7 for an inflate compression. All other values for compression type are invalid. The program will complain with an error if it cannot open or write a file.

# binpack
binpack is used as ``binpack list.txt out.bin c_header.h`` with ``list.txt`` being a text file output by bindump, ``out.bin`` being the output bin path, and ``c_header.h`` being an optional parameter to dump the file names into a C header for defines. The format of each line of the text file is ``compression_type=%d: %s`` with ``%d`` being the compression type and ``%s`` being the filename relative to the directory of the text file. Possible values for the compression type are 0 for no compression, 1 for a LZSS compression, 2, 3, or 4 for a sliding window compression similar to YAZ0, 5 for a RLE compression, or 7 for an inflate compression. All other values for compression type are invalid. The program will complain with an error if it cannot open or write a file. The C header starts with an include guard defining an uppercased version of the filename with periods replaced with underscores using an ``#ifndef`` and ``#define`` sequence on different lines. The C header follows with a blank line. The header then lists defines for each of the files making up the BIN file, translating them to their respective indices. The file then is followed with another blank line and then with ``#endif`` which ends the include guard.
